# nepal_earthquake
Replication file for Matthew Gordon's job market paper Visibility and Vulnerability: Aid allocations after the 2015 Nepal Earthquake. Paper available from: https://sites.google.com/view/mdgordon/.

The starting point for the analysis is the World Bank Household Risk and Vulnerability Survey, available from: https://microdata.worldbank.org/index.php/catalog/3705/related-materials.

First run the WB_HRVS_processing.R script to create full_panel.csv.

WB_HRVS_descriptive.Rmd generates the descriptive statistics, summary stats, and Townsend regressions. eq_survey_analysis.Rmd generates the correlates of earthquake damages discussed in the paper, with tables in the appendix.

WB_HRVS_estimation_pooled.Rmd generates the regression discontinuity and quantile regression discontinuity results. rdhelpers.R contains functions called in this script.

MSM.R and gmm.R calibrate the structural model in the paper using GMM. MSM.R is a pseudo-global grid search for optimal parameter values. It generates random combinations of parameter values, calculates value functions, and finds the sum of squared errors for the moment vector for each combination. This script was run on a cluster with 30 nodes, each node using 20 cpus.  

gmm.R fits a smoothed function to the data generated by MSM.R, minimizes the smoothed function, and then uses that minima as the starting point for GMM. VFIfunctions.R contains helper functions used by both of these scripts. 

VFI.Rmd uses the final calibrated value function to perform counterfactuals and compare model simulations to the RD results.
